
Git is a popular version control system. It was created by Linus Torvalds in 2005, and has been maintained by Junio Hamano.
It is used for:

Tracking code changes
Tracking who made changes
Coding collaboration

What does Git do:

1. Manage projects with Repositories
2.Clone a project to work on a local copy
3.Control and track changes with Staging and Committing
4.Branch and Merge to allow for work on different parts and versions of a project
5.Pull the latest version of the project to a local copy
6.Push local updates to the main project


Github :

Git is Software and GitHub is service.
GitHub makes tools that use Git.
GitHub is the largest host of source code in the world.

Git commands 

git init:
The command git init is used to create an empty Git repository. 
After the git init command is used, a .git folder is created in the directory with some subdirectories.

git add . :
Add command is used after checking the status of the files, to add those files to the staging area.
Before running the commit command, "git add" is used to add any new or modified files.

git commit:
The commit command makes sure that the changes are saved to the local repository.
The command "git commit –m <message>" allows you to describe everyone and help them understand what has happened.

git status:
The git status command tells the current state of the repository.
The command provides the current working branch. If the files are in the staging area, but not committed, 
it will be shown by the git status. Also, if there are no changes, it will show the message no changes to commit, 
working directory clean.

git config:
The git config command is used initially to configure the user.name and user.email. 
This specifies what email id and username will be used from a local repository.
git config --global user.name “any user name”

git config --global user.email <email id>

git branch:
The git branch command is used to determine what branch the local repository is on.
The command enables adding and deleting a branch.

git checkout:
The git checkout command is used to switch branches, whenever the work is to be started on a different branch.
The command works on three separate entities: files, commits, and branches.

git merge  -- git merge <branch_name> :
The git merge command is used to integrate the branches together. The command combines the changes from one branch to another branch. 
It is used to merge the changes in the staging branch to the stable branch.

git clone git clone <remote_URL>:
The git clone command is used to create a local working copy of an existing remote repository.

git pull -- git pull <branch_name> <remote URL>:
The git pull command is used to fetch and merge changes from the remote repository to the local repository.

git push --git push -u origin master:
The command git push is used to transfer the commits or pushing the content from the local repository to the remote repository.
